people in marketing and business they
always focus on I want more traffic I
want more new customers and that's great
if you've really got most large
corporations they generate the majority
of the revenue from repeat customers so
figure out more products and services
that are very related to your core ones
that you can add in that will generate
help you generate more repeat customers
well Neil as we talked a little bit
before our listeners really do love to
hear the story your story is your story
how you started your company what was
the driving force to do that any you
know any hurdles you had overcome so
please take it away tell us how you
started your company
sure so if I had to go way back
um I'm 37 now I started becoming an
entrepreneur when I was around 15 and a
half
and
you know at the time I was looking for a
job couldn't find a job created a job
board so I'm like if I can't find a job
let me just help other people create a
job and I created a job board and it got
little to no visitors and the reason
behind this was is I wanted to make
money that's why I started
entrepreneurship not the right reason
but that's what I did usually you want
to start something because you're
solving a problem you see a pain point I
wanted to become an entrepreneur because
I just wanted money that was it there
was no other logical reason
and
when I created my job board popped it up
paid some people to help me out
no one came to it
and it was at that moment I had to learn
marketing
and I got decent at it started driving
traffic to the job board was reading
articles going to events
experimenting trying to get good at it
by myself because I didn't have really
any money to pay too many firms help me
out
and after six months seven months I
started getting a good amount of traffic
almost a hundred thousand visitors a
month I was like holy crap wow a lot of
traffic
and even with all that traffic I was
just like wait I'm still not making any
money
but I was good at the driving traffic
part so I was like you know what forget
this
I'm just gonna go and go to college
finish early and just go get a job like
everyone else because I couldn't figure
out how to make money right that was the
main reason I want to start being an
entrepreneur
so my first college class when I was 16
was called Speech 101 so I was going
night time to a community college speech
101 give a speech on how Google works
and how to do marketing on it someone in
there said hey I'm at this company and
we're actually looking for someone like
you
so that he got me a gig five grand a
month I drove um around 20 25 million
dollars a year in revenue and I was like
ah this is working out quite well and
there's like yeah this is working out
quite well the owner of the company his
son owned the Ad Agency he introduced me
a few more customers next thing you know
I was 16 making 20 grand a month
and 16 years old
16 you said yeah 16 and it's still a lot
of money even today
but the whole
premise behind it was I was really good
at driving traffic I enjoyed it and I
was solving a real problem for people
fast forward to where I am I did a lot
of startups in between but the main
company I focus on today is NP digital
which was short for Neil Patel digital
and my Ad Agency we helped Drive traffic
and sales and we love it we've been
doing it for five years we now have 750
plus people that work for us
um we're spread out throughout the whole
world we're still growing nicely
um getting headwinds from the economy
I'm assuming like a lot of people are
though uh so our growth has slowed down
but we love what we're doing we're
having a ton of fun
and I enjoyed and the big thing that I
learned is it's hard to make money just
because you want to make money it's easy
to make money for good at solving a
problem that a lot of people are facing
so solve a problem that's what you
should dive in and if you're passionate
about what that problem is and the
solution you're going to provide you're
going to do much better than other
people out there who are just doing it
for the money because when you're
passionate you're putting the time the
energy the resources that you need to
succeed
that's fantastic let's look back a
little bit so you've been in business
for a while and you start at 15 and a
half and uh
in your 37 today is that correct huh
okay so so you got a little over 15
years underneath your belt looking back
is there any decisions you made that you
wish you would have done differently
the big thing was Focus so I did way too
many businesses I had when I first
started off I would start helping people
get more traffic so Ad Agency that I was
like ah this type of business sucks
created a software company created
another software company tried to create
a cloud computing company
uh I did one too many Ventures if I just
focused on an ad agency eventually it
went full circle
so I had an ad agency back in the day
didn't like it created some other
companies five years ago I created
another Ad Agency that's the NP digital
one but if I stuck with it the whole
time I would have been way better off in
life
yeah well it's because we only learned
by uh doing right and so uh you get a
chance you know we get a chance to go
backwards but let's say you also are
very successful at 37 you you hit
benchmarks of people who only dream of
hitting okay are there any key decisions
that you can look back and say these are
some of the good decisions I made to
help me get to where I'm at
saving money was big because a lot of
times when you want to make decisions
it's expensive or you may not make as
much my mom always taught me when I was
younger it's easier to save it than it
is to make it
so saving does help quite a bit the
other big thing that I ended up learning
the hard way was uh if you do too many
things at once you're never going to put
enough time and energy into one thing to
make it successful enough that was
another big lesson the other thing that
helped me get to where I am today and
this one took me a long time but one of
my in-between companies was called
kissmetrics we raised Venture Capital
the startup didn't work out and the
investors would tell me Neil your job as
a Founder is to hire really amazing
people and hire people have done it
before and that's how you succeed
and I did that with this business hired
really successful people have done it
before and it's really helped us
tell us about your company who your
customers are
um so our listeners can see if they
would be someone that could utilize your
services
so NP digital we help companies all over
the world with their digital marketing
or Performance Marketing whether it's
SEO or Google or Facebook or social
media or email or conversion
optimization we literally do digital
marketing for all types of customers in
all different kinds of Industries
doesn't matter if you're a franchise or
a car dealership or a software company
or a Fortune 100 company and we also
have an SMB division called NP digital
accelerate where we help small and
medium businesses grow as well
so Define small is is that a sole
entrepreneur or is this a minimum
revenue or minimum size or is your
services available to everybody
it's available to almost everyone
um if you're a solo entrepreneur
probably not the best fit but if you
have some employees you're looking to
scale you already have Revenue that's
what our SMB division helps out with we
don't really work too much with uh
people who are just starting off and
have no Revenue some of our clients are
that though they're heavily Venture
funded but typically our clients are
people who are already generating
Revenue in any industry for most part
yeah perfect and you work with and also
all around the world
yep okay location doesn't matter we have
people all around the world we have 750
employees my guess is within a year and
a half to two years will be over a
thousand
fantastic fantastic
um you're also an author of many books
is there any one book that maybe you
would suggest uh to our listeners maybe
they should start out uh by reading
I wrote a book ages ago called Hustle
but the bigger thing uh book that I love
that I would recommend it's not written
by me it's written by a guy named Ray
dalio I love the book called principle
so you guys should check it out
principles okay
we'll put that as well as uh yearbook on
books on the show notes well let's shift
to the second half of um the show here
you mentioned you know you have a lot of
employees okay you mentioned headwinds
you know as we talk a little bit before
the show where your all the headwinds we
face today we face in a lifetime of a
business but here we are facing them all
in one year
so you have to lead 750 people you have
to navigate your company you have to
adapt and adjust so tell us how are you
doing that do you see this is a time to
retreat time to invest time to Pivot how
are you looking at these current uh
headwinds and how you how are you
navigating your company
sure so I'm no Economist but
I think the headwinds are going to get
worse not better governments are
completely Rising rates I don't think
we've really seen the uh real full force
of people doing the layoffs and stuff
like that so I think the economy is
going to get worse
now the way we're navigating it is be
cautious with our spending
um hire the right people if you see good
people in a good Market or a bad Market
you should get them because good people
always pay for themselves
and the other thing that we're seeing is
just be patient we're not rushing to go
higher too much or do tons of
Acquisitions we're taking it slow and
steady it's okay to have slower growth
but have some cushion to optimize for
the downside as well
so you know we're not being too
aggressive because we want some sort of
a safety net
so this is probably more of a learning
for me you're in this digital marketing
side and I'm thinking when things slow
down I would guess that they need your
services more
that they do
um but people still do cut back where
they try to and what we have seen is
some companies started cutting back when
the stock market went down because we
deal with some really large public
Detroit companies
and I remember we were telling one of
them hey you sure you want to turn this
off this is profitable
and they're like yeah our CFO said we
had to turn off our stocks drop too much
and then within 30 days like hey we are
seeing a big drop in revenue from your
efforts and I'm like yeah because it was
profitable I told you if you're spending
a dollar and you're making too you
should spend as much it doesn't matter
what economic climbing you're in and
then they came back to us and ours they
said our CFO gave us a green light to
turn it back on and uh how much more can
we allocate can you keep scaling up to
double triple quadruple
and
I've been through multiple recessions
before I'm not saying we're in one or
not again I'm not an economist but
during previous recessions I'm talking
about like 2008 people would turn off
spend even if it was profitable because
they were worried the Market's much more
sophisticated in which we're seeing
companies not really turning off spend
if it's profitable they don't care if
it's a good Market or a bad Market
they're just spending more
um so I think digital marketing will
still grow but I don't think it'll grow
as fast as it did a few years ago when
the economy starts recovering people
will start going more
you know all in into digital marketing
because it's a great way to grow and
it's more effective than traditional ads
just look at Google Facebook they're
much larger than most traditional
companies and it's because the
advertising is more effective
[Music]
um most people don't understand your
space that you're in that's why we need
people like you but are there uh Trends
adjustments are there is there some
nuances to your industry that's changed
since you've started
the algorithms keep changing so when
you're in the digital marketing Arena
there's algorithms with Facebook or
Instagram or Tick Tock or YouTube or
Google or Bing and the list goes on and
on
so you got to keep adapting to it which
sucks but what's funny is on a podcast
interview yesterday and the guy's like
well if they didn't adapt then people
wouldn't need you I'm like yeah that's
true that's a good way of looking at it
but I'd rather it be easier for the
customers forget me making money what's
best for them is something that's easier
to execute on than something that's
harder
so so all the social media platforms
changing and you get to adapt to those
is that what you were saying that the
search engines they all change on a
regular basis some change multiple times
a day some change weekly some change of
monthly but you gotta adapt yes or that
great well you start your business at 15
and a half a lot half our listeners are
people working for corporate America
okay and they're
I doubt doubt 15 and a half were
listening usually either I would say our
demographics probably more 45 to 65 most
likely we are getting a lot of younger
folks which we really appreciate
but if you're working for corporate
America what would you say to them if
they're thinking about wanting to start
their own business
if you're looking to start your own
business and you're passionate about
something and you think you're gonna
love it go for it you know just these
economic downturns are some of the best
times to start a business look at
companies like Netflix and Amazon
they've Thrive during downturns
um you can too you just got to be
patient and you got to find something
that you love because if you don't love
it you're not going to put in the energy
that you need to I look at downturns of
some of the best times to start
businesses because there's usually less
competition less competition perfect
and for the people who are already on a
company and you had mentioned earlier
one of the lessons you learned is Maybe
doing too many things at one time but
all our companies are saying you know
what maybe my particular product or
service is a little slow maybe I need to
Pivot adjust or adapt what would you be
saying to them about if they're
considering adding additional Revenue
stream
if you can add in complementary revenue
streams like upsells down cells those
are all great think of it this way you
know most people in marketing and
business they always focus on I want
more traffic I want more new customers
and that's great but if you've really
got most large corporations they
generate the majority of the revenue
from repeat customers so figure out more
products and services that are very
related to your core ones that you can
add in that will generate help you
generate more repeat customers
yeah that's great advice you already
have that base there why not give them
more services in a better and different
way
yeah Neil I really want to say thanks
again I know uh you're extremely busy
guy so thanks for taking the time on the
show if people wanted to get a hold of
you to get a chance to work with you
what's the best way for them to do that
and um npdigital.com well thanks again
on behalf of our listeners I'm always
grateful for our guests who take their
time out of their day to share their
insight and their wisdom so thank you
for your taking your time and uh I was a
pleasure getting to know you
same
take care